Thank you, Mary.
Thank you so much.
Okay, so let me get that going again.
If you had forgotten, I'll remind you, at the beginning of this year, we are looking about rooted.
It's a series we call rooted, and it's about exploring what it means to be planted in Christ, nourished by Him and growing, like a tree that bears fruit at the right time.
And our key passage has been Psalm 1.
And so I'm just going to read
to you.
I think it's the first four verses, which is where we've kind of sat ourselves at the beginning of this year.
Blessed is the one who does not walk in step with the wicked
or stand in the way that sinners take or sit in the company of mockers, but whose delight is in the law of the Lord and who meditates on his Lord day and night.
That person is like a tree planted by streams of water which yields its fruit in season and whose leaf does not wither, whatever they do prospers.
like a tree planted by streams of water which yields its fruit in season and whose leaf doesn't wither.
Whatever they do, prospers.
Years ago, Dave and I lived in a house, in Nottingham, and in the garden, it had the most beautiful plum tree.
And you know that time of year where you could just walk down the garden and pick a big juicy Victoria plum, and it was absolutely incredible.
It was like bending under the weight of the fruit that it produced.
It was incredible.
And God creates plum trees to bear fruit.
And God creates us to bear fruit of all kinds.
God created you and me to bear good fruit in our lives.
Now, we are not going to sprout apples or plums.
This is not going to happen.
But our lives are created to produce fruit.
Fruit, that is going to last.
Okay?
So I thought,
That's a bit of a kind of abstract thought, isn't it really?
So I wanna explain what does that mean?
That fruit in our lives that's gonna last before I kick off a bit further.
So I was thinking, the kind of fruit that I'm talking about in our lives are fruits of different sorts.
So I don't know if you can see that, I hope you can.
So I was thinking, there is kind of character fruit.
You know, that kind of inner change, like who are we becoming?
And very,
brilliantly, obviously, Galatians 5 talks about the fruit of the Spirit of God working in us means that we are changing.
The fruit in our lives when internally we are changing and we are really rooted in Jesus is that we see more love, patience, joy, peace, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control.
That's the inner, that character fruit that goes on deep in us.
Then maybe there's like
life fruit that people can see from the outside is how we actually live.
The fruit might look like serving others, it might look like forgiving quickly, it might be speaking the truth with grace, it might be sharing generously, it might be that you have real integrity.
or maybe relational relationship fruit.
You know that impact that you have on others.
What are you like?
What kind of fruit are you bearing?
Good fruit encourages people.
It builds other people up.
It leads someone closer to Jesus.
It creates unity instead of division.
And there's that spiritual fruit, our connection with God.
And when we are bearing fruit in that way,
We maybe have this kind of stirring to pray a hunger for God's word.
We just have to eat our Bible.
And we trusting God in trials and difficult times, we stand firm in all the promises that we've sung about this morning.
Maybe that inner connection with God is that obedience to follow his leading.
All of that happens in a really deep way.
All of those things are what fruit in our lives might look like.
And they all start with the roots of our life.
Just like a tree, a healthy tree depends on healthy, deep roots, where our roots are are really, really important.
And over the past few weeks, we've been exploring what it means to be rooted, and we have focused.
at looking at Jesus and the Word of God, being rooted there, being rooted in Him.
We've looked at being rooted in community, gathering together as a church.
We've looked at being rooted in deep spiritual friendships and looking to develop those in our lives because all of those things, like healthy trees, keep us rooted and growing healthy.
There's an image of a tree.
I love this image.
A tree that is not struggling to survive, not barely hanging on, but planted, rooted, nourished, well-watered.
That's when I read Psalm 1, the kind of tree I imagine.
And that is my prayer and my hope for all of us as individuals that we will grow like that, healthy, strong, bearing fruit,
or seeds in season.
And today, I'm going to be talking about one of the key ways that with God's help, we deepen our roots.
And it's about serving.
So I'm going to go for serving with purpose this morning.
So when I say the word serve, you might feel excited
I don't know, you might feel a bit nervous, oh no.
Or you might suddenly remember the email that you didn't reply to six months ago.
It's okay.
Here are a few, I'm gonna just go through some inspiring reasons that serving is really about developing healthy roots, developing healthy discipleship, okay?
So, first of all, serving is at the heart
of following Jesus.
I want to start with the words of Jesus himself.
You've got a sneak preview.
So Mark 10, for even the son of man did not come to be served but to serve and give his life as a ransom for many.
Jesus, the king of kings, didn't come demanding that people served him.
He came to serve.
He came, if you just think about what he did,
He came washing feet.
He came feeding crowds.
He came touching the outcast and knows that no one else would go close to.
He came laying down his life.
In the kingdom of God, greatness is not about being served, but it is about serving.
So if we're full as a Jesus Christ, serving isn't like this added extra.
It's very, very much about following the lead of Jesus.
who knows best for us.
And being his disciple, being his apprentice, staying close to him is about doing what he does, being where he is.
And if we are close to him, if we are rooted in his word and in his presence, just as someone talks about, then our response is born out of his love.
It's an overflow of love that we are now aware of when we are rooted in Him.
And the incredible thing is we begin to sort of love the things He loves.
We begin to love those around us just that bit more.
And serving, I believe, is an act of worship.
You know, and it bubbles up and then we have to make a choice, but we are simply responding to the love He has lavished on us by loving others.
serving is integral to following Jesus.
And it's his way, that is a way of loving and humility and sacrifice.
And so I think that's why it's one of these roots.
When we serve others, as Jesus did, from a place of love, that we're not just doing a task, we're not just doing a job, we're not filling a rotor once a month, we give back to God, what he's given to us as we serve
those around us.
We respond to Christ's love.
And the more we are invited to live this adventure of loving Him, receiving His love and responding day by day, becoming more like Him.
Serving others is not something actually that our flesh would choose to do.
Serving and being generous is a massive place, I think, where we experience a real battle about being generous and serving others.
It can be so hard to be sacrificial and step outside of ourselves and look to someone else.
But it's Christ deeply at work in us who draws us to step forward and to serve.
And as we do, it's amazing roots go down and down because we grow in patience when we cooperate with the Holy Spirit.
We grow in kindness when we respond to God.
we grow to be more like Jesus when we stop and we put others first.
And that's how healthy roots of faith and obedience go deeper and deeper over time.
So, that first point I wanted to make was that serving is just at the heart of following Jesus.
And as I was preparing this, I was thinking about Chelsea, who's gonna come and join me now.
She's been in our church a little while and I thought,
I'd love you to meet Chelsea and meet who she is.
And I just want her to say a little bit about serving and what Jesus has done in her as she serves others.
Say this is Chelsea.
Who's a bit nervous?
So please welcome her.
Hello.
Hi.
I thought you were going to ask the questions first and then.
I was going to answer them.
The questions I sent Chelsea were this.
How did you come to be here at Life Inyard and be grown in your faith?
How does serving others look like in your life?
And how has God moved in your life as you and Josh and Harry have stepped into serving?
That's what I asked her.
Just so I didn't ramble.
We ended up at this church because Harry had learned about Jesus in an already lesson.
That was pretty much it.
Harry goes through phases sometimes, so we thought this was just another phase.
Because Harry gets hyper-fogrissed because he's got autism and ADHD.
So he kept going, I really love Jesus when he came home.
And we were going, right, it's just a phase.
He's gonna grow up, that's fine.
And he didn't.
He kept coming home going, I really, really like Jesus.
I've learnt about his crucifixion.
I'm really sad.
I can't believe we did that to him.
and he got really upset and then he learned that he rose again and he was very happy.
So he started praying and mainly he started going right.
We need to find a church because obviously this isn't going away.
And we kept looking at different churches going, oh, this one's very dark.
I don't like this one.
And then he was going, oh, this one's very dusty.
I'm not going at that one, man.
So then we went to the park across the road and came in and cat offered him a drink of juice.
And that city was over there.
And he was like, Mom, I think this one's the one.
And as well, if any said, Mom, I can feel Jesus here.
So that is why we started coming to this church.
And then after we listened to a few different Sunday services, we said, we're definitely coming back.
So that's how we ended up here.
And every time we listened, we felt like we're being cold to come back.
And it started to make sense.
So that was the reason why we ended up here.
The second question was, how does saving look?
How does saving others look in your life?
So I help with the kids life one at five on a Sunday once a month.
May and Josh help at the pantry and Friday lunch club and the warm welcome.
So since helping one at fives I've learned quite a lot.
That actually teach me quite a bit.
They're very, very welcoming.
and they come up with some crazy things, but in a good way.
They've encouraged me to be very, very open about my faith, because when I was new to it, I was quite shy, especially about praying out loud.
As soon as they hear the worship music, they'd get right in their way straight away, like, come on Chelsea, let's dance.
And I'm like, oh, really?
Like, come on.
And when I heard Minay getting up off the floor, it was actually Joy, who came over and was like,
we can pray for new knees.
In straight away, I've had a hand over my knee going, let's pray.
So I prayed about my knee.
And she was about three, yeah, at the time, when she was praying for the knee.
No, it was dry.
So that was very surprising at the time, because she's very small.
And the other thing, when I was asked about praying, I said, so how do you use pray?
One more colouring in.
I just speak to him like he's your best friend.
You know, like, I should already know that.
And at the pantry, no one is rushed.
And that was the other thing I found very helpful.
As a volunteer in other places, it's always been a job.
You just get on with your job.
And quick as you can, they're just a number, get them in, get them out.
Here, if people come in with the weight of the world on their shoulders and they feel really, really downtrodden, everyone is told just
Make everyone feel welcome if they've got something to say, sit and chat with them, have a cup of tea, and those people you feel are so much better, and I've never felt that anywhere else.
So that's really good.
So that's deep in my faith quite a lot.
I've been taught quite a lot.
And the last one was, how was God deep in your faith as me and Josh have stepped into saving?
Josh's confidence has really improved.
I'm going to mention you.
Josh doesn't like, well, doesn't like speaking to a lot of people.
Josh is also autistic, sorry to mention that.
But he feels like this is his church family too.
And he's just started alpha.
And when he came home, he decided to talk till half 11 at night.
And I kept having to say it's bedtime.
We've got to go to sleep now, Josh.
So I think we've both grown very spiritually.
And I think that's helped us there.
And so there you go.
I remember Chelsea sharing a testimony at her baptism and I'm like, she's so good at communicating.
I'm going to get her to share.
So the first thing is that it is at the heart of following Jesus.
The second thing is everyone gets to play.
One of our core values as a church is very simple.
Everyone gets to play.
There are no spectators in the body of Christ.
There are no VIP Christians.
There are no professional ministers who do everything and serve while everyone else watches on.
That is not how things work.
One Peter 4.10 says, each of you should use whatever gift you have received to serve others as faithful stewards of God's grace in its barriers form.
Each of you, not some of you, not the confident ones, not the outgoing ones, not the ones who have been here for years.
Each of you, each of you.
God has placed gifts.
I love this.
He has placed gifts.
He has placed passions.
He has placed abilities and different personality in every person in this room.
And he did that on purpose.
You have been created just like you are.
And Josh cooks amazing food.
I don't know if you've written it down here as well.
He cooks amazing food and joyfully cleans the kitchen till it's spotless and leaves on a Sunday sometimes at four or five o'clock because he has got it sparkling.
And it's joyful when he does it.
Joy, she's, yeah, there she is.
She's stripy top.
That's joy with the baby.
She has this gentle,
amazing way of connecting with people and sending an encouraging text at just the right time.
She sends Bible verses and she says, I'm praying for you.
Adam bashes the drums with more joy than anyone I know and serves us by helping us lead worship.
Sarah fills up the coffee and trundles through with the trolley and she does it.
She loves it.
There are so many people.
who serve in different ways.
When everyone plays their part in the body of Christ, the church is just so beautiful.
A tree bears fruit because branches are designed to bear fruit, and it plays its part in the healthy tree.
And in God's family, and of course there are ways to serve outside of the church,
And Bible's clear, there's talk of serving each other as God's family in the church and serving the world.
Those two things are equally as important.
We can serve our neighbors.
We went, we've had elderly neighbors, less than one of them has Parkinson's and we went and put their Christmas tree up me and Sarah, I think it was just before Christmas and then we went and packed it away and took the boxes upstairs.
There are so many ways to practically serve out your neighbors, whoever your neighbors are.
Our families, sometimes we just serve our families because that is where God has placed us and that's what we need to do.
But in this church, everyone
gets to play, you get to play.
And here's the beautiful thing.
You don't have to know what your gifts are.
You don't have to know how brilliant you are before you start serving.
You often discover your gifts when you start stepping in, just I think as Chelsea's just mentioned there.
And I think often what we're drawn to, what we're interested to gives us clues maybe about how God has made us and how he's made us to step in.
But just try something.
You learn, you grow,
You find your place, you're connected with more and more other brothers and sisters who will encourage you on.
And you meet Jesus as you express practically God's love through serving in some way.
That's how roots go deep by being planted and having a try.
Jump in, try something.
So serving is the heart at the heart of following Jesus.
Everyone gets to play.
And I would love to invite you as well to step towards that today.
Later on, there's a slide that will be on, and you can just click and just say, well, I'd like to try serving here or there, and we'd love to help you with that.
And even if you've only been here a few weeks, that's you as well, okay?
Thirdly, serving roots us in God because it connects us to our God-given purpose.
I've just kind of alluded to it, but Ephesians 2,
8 to 10 says, for it is by grace that you have been saved through faith.
And this is not from yourselves.
It is a gift of God, not by works so that no one can boast.
For we are God's handiwork created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to do.
We have good works to do.
But more than that,
God created these good works in mind.
They're prepared in advance for us to do.
My recent Google search yesterday informed me that there are 8.3 billion humans on the planet.
And you know what's incredible about that is that nobody else in that whole 8.3 billion can do the things that God made you
to do.
8.3 billion, you are fearfully, wonderfully made a masterpiece with works that he has prepared in advance for you to do.
You said you wanted a word this morning.
I feel like that's God's word to you, is this telling me?
You are one in 8.3 billion.
He's made you to bring all that you are, to serve him and bless others.
And only you can do that.
You are unique.
My dad has a twin brother.
He's even different from his brother.
You're unique.
There is no one in all creation like you.
There's no one who can express his love in this world and serve others like you.
No one can glorify God.
That is our purpose to worship God and to glorify him.
No one can make God's scene
glorify him in the way that you can.
You are beyond special.
You are priceless.
You are unique, made for a purpose.
See, are you hearing me?
Okay.
Good.
different gifts, different personalities, different ways of supporting the children in the kids' ministry, different ways of serving the youth, different ways of making meals, different ways of leading worship, different ways of speaking, different ways of just doing it all that goes on in our world, in our church.
It's all different.
Serving isn't
just about what happens to be gathered.
Like I said, it's about who we are in the world, who we come into contact with as well.
The different ways we can serve our neighbors, our work colleagues, our friends and strangers.
We all have opportunities to serve as Jesus would have us serve.
But we get to choose how we respond.
Do we cooperate with that truth and with his invitation or not?
we are called as followers of Jesus created by God to serve others throughout our lives.
When we serve, we reflect God's grace to those around us.
And I know our lives can look different.
We go through different seasons and some will be called to care and serve their family.
or poorly relatives, and they need to focus their energy on serving their family for a season.
And that is what is needed.
And God knows those people who are serving in hidden ways, their families, you are serving the Lord, you are glorifying God as you do that.
So if you're here as well, and you actually really need to be served, you know, you're carrying heavy weights and
You need help.
You need to be served.
That sounds like being part of a family.
And I'm really glad that you're here.
So let us serve you as well.
Serving in all its forms shifts the focus from ourselves to others.
And we embody Christ as we do it.
It's not merely an action, but it's the heart posture where we put down roots over and over.
Galatians, his three verses, I want to read you quickly.
Galatians 3, 13 says, you, my brothers and sisters, were called to be free, but do not use your freedom to indulge the flesh, rather serve one another humbly in love.
Mark 10, 45, we heard it already.
For even the son of man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many.
Philippians 2, 4, let each of you look not only to his own interests,
but to the interests of others.
So we are designed with a purpose.
We are created to serve when we humble ourselves to serve whatever that looks like.
Given of our time, our energy, our resources to serve, there is life in that.
We're made to do that.
I was on a Zoom call a while ago with a pastor from Canada called David Ruis.
He's a songwriter.
We don't sing his songs, I'm sure, from time to time.
And he leads the Association of Vineyard Churches in the whole of Canada.
And he said, I never want to graduate from place, from position of servant.
I never want to graduate from position of servant.
I'm like, yeah.
Me too.
Never want to graduate from that place.
Jesus didn't.
Why on earth would we?
And that's phrase stuck with me.
I want my life inside and outside to be growing more and more like Jesus.
And a lot of people, and I certainly can can say, I grew most in my faith when I started serving.
There's a beautiful kingdom blessing in serving others.
Chelsea mentioned a little bit how the children, as she literally knelt with them, arrived early, cleared up all the crumbs for whatever.
She is blessed when she serves the children because it's faith in action.
And Jesus loves that.
In this context on a Sunday morning, for example, serving people stepping forward and playing their part means children feel safe and loved.
guests feel welcomed, corporate worship becomes possible, community is built, the gospel is made visible, meals are shared, people are ministered to by God as we pray for one another and church family continues to grow, just to name a few.
But serving blesses the one who serves as well.
God will grow you, he will grow me just as deeply rooted trees grow and bear fruit in season.
So yeah, there's no guilt, there's no pressure, just an opportunity to step closer today, to serve in some way.
There are as many opportunities as there are people in this room.
Everyone gets to play.
Whoever you are, I want to invite you to come and to serve in this body, the church.
That's God's vision for you in the church and outside of the church.
So I'm just extending that invitation to you.
So I am going to pray for us.
A few people over the past couple of days have just been sending words and pictures last week as we minister to one another.
There was a real freedom as the Holy Spirit came.
And I don't know about everything I've said has struck you today.
But shall we just respond to God, whatever he might want to
say to you.
In fact, before you stand, I'm just going to read to you a couple of things that people have sent me in terms of words and pictures, because we believe God speaks.
And so, Mary, did you have something you wanted to share?
Yeah, come on.
So, yes, this was about roots.
So this maybe isn't connected with what I've just said, but someone said they felt like God is saying that people are living shallow lives, that their roots might be spread wide, but they're
only just below the surface.
And when pushed or strained, they bend rather than stand firm.
And that maybe people justify their actions and compare them to the world rather than up to the word.
And he wants us to be in this world, but not of this world.
So we need to push our roots deeper so that we don't bend when we're tested and compromise.
And Mary had something she wanted to share as well.
Yes, over the last few weeks I've just had this picture going through my mind of a piece of knitting actually.
And it was green and I was asking God about why was it green and I think it's because it represents life.
But the knitting had a stitch that had dropped and I just felt that God was saying that sometimes we need to pick up within ourselves what that might be that God wants us to do.
But just as with this jumper, you can see this side here, but the underneath side is just as important.
So it may be that the ways that we're giving are serving or hidden, but that's just as important to God.
So it might be something hidden like prayer or helping somebody that maybe nobody else knows about, but God knows.
And I felt that he was saying, you know, that each part as we play our part,
That's what holds the whole garment together.
And I've just been kind of struck also by Nicola's top that she's wearing today with all the beautiful colors.
And I just felt God was speaking to me about how every different color makes the garment so beautiful.
And because we all have something different to contribute.
Thanks very much.
Okay, well, let's just stand and respond to what Holy Spirit might be doing.
Calm Holy Spirit.